# mp3
MUSIC MP3 APP

The idea of creating a music app came as a first thought and attempt ,however it did change quite a lot in the process.Eventually it was meant for me to create a radio streaming app, which later on ended in a lot of errors and mistakes using the third party library. The codes in the package were not updated therefore I found another external npm package called ‘expo-av’. This one allowed me to play sound on my react native app, however fetching songs to make it as a streaming app was a question of allowance to play the tracks  and would the link be even working till the day of the presentation. I went for the less complicated way which was importing already downloaded songs I had on my computer. Overall the simple functionality of the app takes us  back to times when there were no streaming options and  we had our mp3 devices to listen to music.

Although mp3 is an outdated idea to make an app it does have a modern style to it. I sat down one day with Figma.com to visualize my idea and went for the dark theme mode with colorful pop up containers, icons and buttons. I did have Spotify as a reference, however I wanted to implement something that was completely mine and that was the circles showing the current playing track and having the previous and next song hiding behind it.That was to have an Idea what songs are circulating around.
In my project the hierarchy goes like this: I have my app.js on the highest level(grandfather) and the father is the ContextProvider.There I am passing some useState variables and a callback function to its children. There are 3 stack screen components that are wrapped in it.
The first appearing screen is the Songs component it has downloaded tracks that are displayed in a FlatList and inside of it I use one function created called: function handleClick index (meaning that depending on which song the user clicks it will open that song being displayed first), which is navigating to the next screen component called Music.js. This file contains most of the functionalities. There are icons for playing, pausing, stopping ,skipping and returning the track. All of them have their own function :async function playSound() that is checking if there is sound playing and if it is then there is an option to stop it using stopAsync() method and the position function is there to know where the sound starts/ends.Async function pauseSound() does exactly that.It takes the position of milliseconds where the track paused and allowing the first function to play it from there.Async function stopSound() on the contrary uses stopAsync method that stop the sound from playing.Async function next()and async function prev() are functions that takes in the current playing songs index and is then adding or decreasing that with 1 to go backwards or forward together with changing the picture of the song as well. Lastly there are two useEffects in this component. The first one takes in a function of loading the songs when they are being changed and taking the index of the track. If there is no sound playing it simply unloads, unmounts.The second useEffect is updating the state of the sound.It has a method called sound.getStatusAsync() which is returning the state as is the sound playing or not with an interval of 500 milliseconds to update that. As an add up there is a plus icon that is pressable and it gives an option to create a playlist and delete as well. That or those playlist are navigating to another component called Playlist. There I am mapping each song with an icon to add it to the playlist and that playlist is also used with flatlist.

